
 Apache - company ,organization.
 AMI - preconfigured operation system. Or machine image. Cloud virtual server.

 Amazon Machine Image - an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) is a special type of virtual appliance
 that is used to create a virtual machine within the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud ("EC2").
 It serves as the basic unit of deployment for services delivered using EC2.

 Kernel - the core of computer program.

 Jenkins - continues integration,continues delivery ,continues deployment tool. We use jenkins as a testers
 to run tests. Application development - the process that starts from version control system, starting from
 repository and up until the production env-t. There is a whole pipeline of events that are happening on that
 application. The code has to be tested, scanned for some kind of issues, then code will be turned into the build.
 Build will be deployed to the test env-t. Functional testing will be done.Then smoke test,runs immediately after
 build was deployed.And we have regression, performance testing, then build goes to testing and development team
 to the staging env-t, to get ready for the release. And in the staging env-t UAT testing should be done and then
 it will go to the production where the end-user can see the application and use it, and if it's a web application,
 we target web applic-s. Web application is available over the browser. Jenkins is also web applic-n.

Apache - company ,organization.

windows server - operation system
selenium grid - program for remote test execution
jenkins - CI/CD tool
they related to each other through Windows operation system, that makes possible to execute .

Role of jenkins: jenkins takes the code ,runs maven command to turn it into the application and returns it to the
server. So it takes that file and send it to server.And then you go to the browser,for example qa3.vytrack.com

Jenkins can run your test as IntelliJ. For this,we need to execute maven command: mvn test

--------------------------------------------------------

Job - one project that jenkins must do. There can be
 -testing jobs(we use for automation)
 -development jobs (jobs that deploy application)(задания, которые развертывают приложение)

 Also there could be pipelines .Jenkins supports free plugins. plugin - some edition to jenkins.
 even cucumber-report is a plugin.
Install plugins: menu-> manage jenkins -> manage plugins


